Interview with Meekail Zain (#151)
scikit-learn/blog: _posts/2022-11-30-meekail-zain-interview.md

---
title: "Interview with Meekail Zain, scikit-learn Team Member"
date: November 30, 2022
categories:
  - Team
tags:
  - Open Source
featured-image: meekail-zain-interview.png

postauthors:
  - name: Reshama Shaikh
    website: https://reshamas.github.io
    image: reshama_shaikh.jpeg 
  - name: Meekail zain
    website: https://www.linkedin.com/in/meekail-zain-02a412a2/
    image: meekail-zain.jpg
---

<div>
  <img src="/assets/images/posts_images/{{ page.featured-image }}" alt="">
  {% include postauthor.html %}
</div>

Posted by [Sangam SwadiK](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sangam-swadi-k/)

> Meekail Zain is a Computer science PhD student at UGA. Member of Quinn Research Group. Software Engineer at Quansight 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meekail Zain is a computer science PhD student at University of Georgia (USA), a member of Quinn Research Group and a software engineer at Quansight.
```

> Meekail Zain is a computer science PhD student at University of Georgia (USA), a member of Quinn Research Group and a software engineer at Quansight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meekail Zain is a computer science PhD student at University of Georgia (USA), a member of Quinn Research Group and a software engineer at Quansight. Meekail officially joined the scikit-learn team as a maintainer in October 2022.
```

1. __What do you find alluring about OSS?__

    This is a tough one, there are many amazing points. If I had to select just a few, it would be (in no particular order):
    - The growth potential
    - The community
    - The impact

    I’ve already discussed the growth potential so I’ll leave it at that.

    The community is fantastic as well! On every project the community base has its own unique personality of sorts, and they are all wonderful! It’s amazing being able to see recurring users that post interesting issues, or take a stab at opening more complex PRs (pull requests). There’s a strong sense of companionship with the people that are also trying to improve the same project as you! It’s akin to a very niche club in high school. It’s a wonderful experience finding people obsessed with the same cool project as you are.

>     Finally, the impact. At the end of the day, the work we do has some serious consequences. Each project is essential to so many different workflows and enables brilliant researchers and software engineers to build complex systems and solutions to cutting edge problems. It’s sometimes surreal to think about how essential some of these projects really are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Finally, the **impact**. At the end of the day, the work we do has some serious consequences. Each project is essential to so many different workflows and enables brilliant researchers and software engineers to build complex systems and solutions to cutting edge problems. It’s sometimes surreal to think about how essential some of these projects really are.
```

    Regarding conferences, I have to go with [SciPy](https://conference.scipy.org/)! I was definitely scared going into the conference thinking that I would be the least-qualified person in every room and that I’d have nothing to talk about. I realized very quickly that there is always something to talk about, and qualifications don’t matter. It’s a gathering of super passionate people that are each eager to talk about the things that interest them, so regardless of whether you’re an expert or a beginner, they will happily explain things to you. Every single attendee has some area, no matter how specific, that they can talk about for hours. That genuine interest and excitement felt rejuvenating and reminded me why I love OSS so much.

1. __What are your hobbies, outside of work and open source?__

>     I really enjoy hiking, camping and playing DnD (Dungeons & Dragons)! Camping especially is an important hobby for me since whenever I have a computer in reach I feel inclined to check my GitHubnotifications, so the occasional total disconnect for a weekend is a fantastic tool for me to give myself a break with no pressure of “I could work on that new feature right now…”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    I really enjoy hiking, camping and playing DnD (Dungeons & Dragons)! Camping especially is an important hobby for me since whenever I have a computer in reach I feel inclined to check my GitHub notifications, so the occasional total disconnect for a weekend is a fantastic tool for me to give myself a break with no pressure of “I could work on that new feature right now…”
```
